    1   Unraveling the Mystery of How Geckos Defy Gravity   Science is most fun when it tickles your imagination. This is particularly true when you see something your common sense tells you just can’t be true. Imagine, for example, you are lying on a bed in a tropical hotel room. A little lizard, a blue gecko about the size of a toothbrush, walks up the wall beside you and upside down across the ceiling, stopping for a few moments over your head to look down at you, and then trots over to the far wall and down.  There is nothing at all unusual in what you have just imagined. Geckos are famous for strolling up walls in this fashion. How do geckos perform this gripping feat? Investi- gators have puzzled over the adhesive properties of geckos for decades. What force prevents gravity from dropping the gecko on your nose? The most reasonable hypothesis seemed suction— salamanders’ feet form suction cups that let them climb walls, so maybe geckos’ do too. The way to test this is to see if the feet adhere in a vacuum, with no air to create suction. Salamander feet don’t, but gecko feet do. It’s not suction. How about friction? Cockroaches climb using tiny hooks that grapple onto irregularities in the surface, much as rock- climbers use crampons. Geckos, however, happily run up walls of smooth polished glass that no cockroach can climb. It’s not friction. Electrostatic attraction? Clothes in a dryer stick together because of electrical charges created by their rubbing to- gether. You can stop this by adding a “static remover” like a Cling-free sheet that is heavily ionized. But a gecko’s feet still adhere in ionized air. It’s not electrostatic attraction.  Could it be glue? Many insects use adhesive secretions from glands in their feet to aid climbing. But there are no glands cells in the feet of a gecko, no secreted chemicals, no footprints left behind. It’s not glue. There is one tantalizing clue, however, the kind that ex- perimenters love. Gecko feet seem to get stickier on some surfaces than others. They are less sticky on low-energy surfaces like Teflon, and more sticky on surfaces made of   polar molecules. This suggests that geckos are tapping directly into the molecular structure of the surfaces they walk on! Tracking down this clue, Kellar Autumn of Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon, and Robert Full of the University of California, Berkeley, took a closer look at gecko feet. Geckos have rows of tiny hairs called setae on the bottoms of their feet, like the bristles of some trendy toothbrush. When you look at these hairs under the micro- scope, the end of each seta is divided into 400 to 1000 fine projections called spatulae. There are about half a million of these setae on each foot, each only one-tenth the diameter of a human hair. Autumn and Full put together an interdisciplinary team of scientists and set out to measure the force produced by a single seta. To do this, they had to overcome two significant experimental challenges:  Isolating a single seta. No one had ever isolated a single seta before. They succeeded in doing this by surgically plucking a hair from a gecko foot under a microscope and bonding the hair onto a microprobe. The microprobe was fitted into a specially designed micromanipulator that can move the mounted hair in various ways. Measuring a very small force . Previous research had shown that if you pull on a whole gecko, the adhesive force sticking each of the gecko’s feet to the wall is about 10 Newtons (N), which is like supporting 1 kg. Because each foot has half a million setae, this predicts that a sin- gle seta would produce about 20 microNewtons of force. That’s a very tiny amount to measure. To attempt the measurement, Autumn and Full recruited a mechanical engineer from Stanford, Thomas Kenny. Kenny is an ex- pert at building instruments that can measure forces at the atomic level.   Part I   The Origin of Living Things   Defying gravity. This gecko lizard is able to climb walls and walk upside down across ceilings. Learning how geckos do this is a fascinating bit of experimental science.   Real People Doing Real Science     The Experiment   Once this team had isolated a seta and placed it in Kenny’s device, “We had a real nasty surprise,” says Autumn. For two months, pushing individual seta against a surface, they couldn’t get the isolated hair to stick at all!  This forced the research team to stand back and think a bit. Finally it hit them. Geckos don’t walk by pushing their feet down, like we do. Instead, when a gecko takes a step, it pushes the palm of the foot into the surface, then uncurls its toes, sliding them backwards onto the surface. This shoves the forest of tips sideways against the surface.  Going back to their instruments, they repeated their ex- periment, but this time they oriented the seta to approach the surface from the side rather than head-on. This had the effect of bringing the many spatulae on the tip of the seta into direct contact with the surface.  To measure these forces on the seta from the side, as well as the perpendicular forces they had already been measur- ing, the researchers constructed a micro-electromechanical cantilever. The apparatus consisted of two piezoresistive layers deposited on a silicon cantilever to detect force in both parallel and perpendicular angles.    The Results   With the seta oriented properly, the experiment yielded re- sults. Fantastic results. The attachment force measured by the machine went up 600-fold from what the team had been measuring before. A single seta produced not the 20 microNewtons of force predicted by the whole-foot mea- surements, but up to an astonishing 200 microNewtons (see graph above)! Measuring many individual seta, adhe- sive forces averaged 194+25 microNewtons.    Two hundred microNewtons is a tiny force, but stupen- dous for a single hair only 100 microns long. Enough to hold up an ant. A million hairs could support a small child. A little gecko, ceiling walking with 2 million of them (see photos above), could theoretically carry a 90-pound backpack—talk about being over-engineered. If a gecko’s feet stick  that good, how do geckos ever become unstuck? The research team experimented with unattaching individual seta; they used yet another micro- instrument, this one designed by engineer Ronald Fearing also from U.C. Berkeley, to twist the hair in various ways. They found that tipped past a critical angle, 30 degrees, the attractive forces between hair and surface atoms weaken to nothing. The trick is to tip a foot hair until its projections let go. Geckos release their feet by curling up each toe and peeling it off, just the way we remove tape. What is the source of the powerful adhesion of gecko feet? The experiments do not reveal exactly what the attractive force is, but it seems almost certain to involve interactions at the atomic level. For a gecko’s foot to stick, the hundreds of spatulae at the tip of each seta must butt up squarely against the surface, so the individual atoms of each spatula can come into play. When two atoms approach each other very closely—closer than the diameter of an atom—a subtle nu- clear attraction called Van der Waals forces comes into play. These forces are individually very weak, but when lots of them add their little bits, the sum can add up to quite a lot.  Might robots be devised with feet tipped with artificial setae, able to walk up walls? Autumn and Full are working with a robotics company to find out. Sometimes science is not only fun, but can lead to surprising advances. To explore this experiment further,  go to the Virtual Lab at www.mhhe.com/raven6/vlab1.mhtml   12  Time (s)  345   20 0 -20   40  60   Force (µN)   80  0   Begin parallel pulling  Seta pulled off sensor   The sliding step experiment.The adhesive force of a single seta was measured. An initial push perpendicularly put the seta in contact with the sensor. Then, with parallel pulling, the  force continued to increase over time to a value of 60 microNewtons (after this, the seta began to slide and pulled off the sensor). In a large number of similar experiments, adhesion forces typically approach 200 microNewtons.   Closeup look at a gecko’s foot. The setae on a gecko’s foot are arranged in rows, and point backwards, away from the toenail. Each seta branches into several hundred spatulae (inset photo).     3   1   The Science of Biology   Concept Outline   1.1 Biology is the science of life.   Properties of Life. Biology is the science that studies living organisms and how they interact with one another and their environment.   1.2 Scientists form generalizations from observations.   The Nature of Science. Science employs both deductive reasoning and inductive reasoning. How Science Is Done. Scientists construct hypotheses from systematically collected objective data. They then perform experiments designed to disprove the hypotheses.   1.3 Darwin’s theory of evolution illustrates how science works.   Darwin’s Theory of Evolution. On a round-the-world voyage Darwin made observations that eventually led him to formulate the hypothesis of evolution by natural selection. Darwin’s Evidence. The fossil and geographic patterns of life he observed convinced Darwin that a process of evolution had occurred. Inventing the Theory of Natural Selection. The Malthus idea that populations cannot grow unchecked led Darwin, and another naturalist named Wallace, to propose the hypothesis of natural selection. Evolution After Darwin: More Evidence. In the century since Darwin, a mass of experimental evidence has supported his theory of evolution, now accepted by practically all prac- ticing biologists.   1.4 This book is organized to help you learn biology.   Core Principles of Biology. The first half of this text is devoted to general principles that apply to all organisms, the second half to an examination of particular organisms.   Y ou are about to embark on a journey—a journey of discovery about the nature of life. Nearly 180 years ago, a young English naturalist named Charles Darwin set sail on a similar journey on board H.M.S. Beagle (figure 1.1 shows a replica of the Beagle). What Darwin learned on his five-year voyage led directly to his development of the theory of evolution by natural selection, a theory that has become the core of the science of biology. Darwin’s voyage seems a fitting place to begin our exploration of biology, the scientific study of living organisms and how they have evolved. Before we begin, however, let’s take a moment to think about what biology is and why it’s important.   FIGURE 1.1 A replica of the Beagle,off the southern coast of South America. The famous English naturalist, Charles Darwin, set forth on H.M.S. Beagle in 1831, at the age of 22.     4 Part I The Origin of Living Things   Properties of Life   In its broadest sense, biology is the study of living things—the science of life. Living things come in an astounding variety of shapes and forms, and biologists study life in many differ- ent ways. They live with gorillas, collect fossils, and listen to whales. They isolate viruses, grow mushrooms, and ex- amine the structure of fruit flies. They read the messages encoded in the long molecules of heredity and count how many times a hummingbird’s wings beat each second. What makes something “alive”? Anyone could deduce that a galloping horse is alive and a car is not, but why? We cannot say, “If it moves, it’s alive,” because a car can move, and gelatin can wiggle in a bowl. They certainly are not alive. What characteristics do define life? All living organ- isms share five basic characteristics: 1. Order. All organisms consist of one or more cells with highly ordered structures: atoms make up mole- cules, which construct cellular organelles, which are contained within cells. This hierarchical organization continues at higher levels in multicellular organisms and among organisms (figure 1.2). 2. Sensitivity. All organisms respond to stimuli. Plants grow toward a source of light, and your pupils dilate when you walk into a dark room. 3. Growth, development, and reproduction. All or- ganisms are capable of growing and reproducing, and they all possess hereditary molecules that are passed to their offspring, ensuring that the offspring are of the same species. Although crystals also “grow,” their growth does not involve hereditary molecules. 4. Regulation. All organisms have regulatory mecha- nisms that coordinate the organism’s internal func- tions. These functions include supplying cells with nu- trients, transporting substances through the organism, and many others. 5. Homeostasis. All organisms maintain relatively constant internal conditions, different from their envi- ronment, a process called homeostasis.   All living things share certain key characteristics: order, sensitivity, growth, development and reproduction,  regulation, and homeostasis.   1.1 Biology is the science of life.   FIGURE 1.2 Hierarchical organization of living things.Life is highly orga- nized—from small and simple to large and complex, within cells, within multicellular organisms, and among organisms.   Organelle Macromolecule Molecule  Cell   WITHIN CELLS     Chapter 1 The Science of Biology 5   AMONG ORGANISMS   Ecosystem Community Species Population   WITHIN MULTICELLULAR ORGANISMS   Tissue  Organ  Organ system  Organism     6 Part I The Origin of Living Things   The Nature of Science   Biology is a fascinating and important subject, because it dramatically affects our daily lives and our futures. Many biologists are working on problems that critically affect our lives, such as the world’s rapidly expanding population and diseases like cancer and AIDS. The knowledge these biolo- gists gain will be fundamental to our ability to manage the world’s resources in a suitable manner, to prevent or cure diseases, and to improve the quality of our lives and those of our children and grandchildren.  Biology is one of the most successful of the “natural sci- ences,” explaining what our world is like. To understand biology, you must first understand the nature of science. The basic tool a scientist uses is thought. To understand the nature of science, it is useful to focus for a moment on how scientists think. They reason in two ways: deductively and inductively.   Deductive Reasoning   Deductive reasoning applies general principles to predict specific results. Over 2200 years ago, the Greek Era- tosthenes used deductive reasoning to accurately estimate the circumference of the earth. At high noon on the longest day of the year, when the sun’s rays hit the bottom of a deep well in the city of Syene, Egypt, Eratosthenes mea- sured the length of the shadow cast by a tall obelisk in Al- exandria, about 800 kilometers to the north. Because he knew the distance between the two cities and the height of the obelisk, he was able to employ the principles of Euclid- ean geometry to correctly deduce the circumference of the earth (figure 1.3). This sort of analysis of specific cases us- ing general principles is an example of deductive reasoning. It is the reasoning of mathematics and philosophy and is used to test the validity of general ideas in all branches of knowledge. General principles are constructed and then used as the basis for examining specific cases.   Inductive Reasoning   Inductive reasoning uses specific observations to construct general scientific principles. Webster’s Dictionary defines sci- ence as systematized knowledge derived from observation and experiment carried on to determine the principles un- derlying what is being studied. In other words, a scientist determines principles from observations, discovering gen- eral principles by careful examination of specific cases. In- ductive reasoning first became important to science in the 1600s in Europe, when Francis Bacon, Isaac Newton, and others began to use the results of particular experiments to infer general principles about how the world operates. If   you release an apple from your hand, what happens? The apple falls to the ground. From a host of simple, specific observations like this, Newton inferred a general principle: all objects fall toward the center of the earth. What New- ton did was construct a mental model of how the world works, a family of general principles consistent with what he could see and learn. Scientists do the same today. They use specific observations to build general models, and then test the models to see how well they work.   Science is a way of viewing the world that focuses on objective information, putting that information to work  to build understanding.   1.2 Scientists form generalizations from observations.   FIGURE 1.3 Deductive reasoning: How Eratosthenes estimated the cir- cumference of the earth using deductive reasoning. 1.On a day when sunlight shone straight down a deep well at Syene in Egypt, Eratosthenes measured the length of the shadow cast by a tall obelisk in the city of Alexandria, about 800 kilometers away. 2.The shadow’s length and the obelisk’s height formed two sides of a triangle. Using the recently developed principles of Euclidean geometry, he calculated the angle, a,to be 7° and 12′, exactly  1  50 of a circle (360°). 3.If angle a =  1  50 of a circle, then the distance between the obelisk (in Alexandria) and the well (in Syene) must equal  1  50 of the circumference of the earth. 4.Eratosthenes had heard that it was a 50-day camel trip from Alexandria to Syene. Assuming that a camel travels about 18.5 kilometers per day, he estimated the distance between obelisk and well as 925 kilometers (using different units of measure, of course).  5.Eratosthenes thus de- duced the circumference of the earth to be 50  925 46,250 kilometers. Modern measurements put the distance from the well to the obelisk at just over 800 kilometers. Employ- ing a distance of 800 kilometers, Era- tosthenes’s value would have been 50 ×800  40,000 kilometers. The actual circumference is 40,075 kilometers.   Sunlight at midday  Distance between cities = 800 km  Well   Light rays parallel   Height of obelisk  Length of shadow   a   a     How Science Is Done   How do scientists establish which general principles are true from among the many that might be true? They do this by systematically testing alternative proposals. If these proposals prove inconsistent with experimental observa- tions, they are rejected as untrue. After making careful ob- servations concerning a particular area of science, scien- tists construct a  hypothesis, which is a suggested explanation that accounts for those observations. A hy- pothesis is a proposition that might be true. Those hy- potheses that have not yet been disproved are retained. They are useful because they fit the known facts, but they are always subject to future rejection if, in the light of new information, they are found to be incorrect.   Testing Hypotheses   We call the test of a hypothesis an  experiment (figure 1.4). Suppose that a room appears dark to you. To under- stand why it appears dark, you propose several hypotheses. The first might be, “There is no light in the room because   the light switch is turned off.” An alternative hypothesis might be, “There is no light in the room because the light- bulb is burned out.” And yet another alternative hypothe- sis might be, “I am going blind.” To evaluate these hy- potheses, you would conduct an experiment designed to eliminate one or more of the hypotheses. For example, you might test your hypotheses by reversing the position of the light switch. If you do so and the light does not come on, you have disproved the first hypothesis. Something other than the setting of the light switch must be the reason for the darkness. Note that a test such as this does not prove that any of the other hypotheses are true; it merely dem- onstrates that one of them is not. A successful experiment is one in which one or more of the alternative hypotheses is demonstrated to be inconsistent with the results and is thus rejected. As you proceed through this text, you will encounter many hypotheses that have withstood the test of experiment. Many will continue to do so; others will be revised as new observations are made by biologists. Biology, like all science, is in a constant state of change, with new ideas appearing and replacing old ones.   Chapter 1 The Science of Biology 7   FIGURE 1.4 How science is done. This diagram il- lustrates the way in which scientific in- vestigations proceed. First, scientists make observations that raise a particular question. They develop a number of potential explanations (hypotheses) to answer the question. Next, they carry out experiments in an attempt to eliminate one or more of these hypotheses. Then, predictions are made based on the remaining hypotheses, and further experiments are carried out to test these predictions. As a result of this process, the least unlikely hypothesis is selected.    Observation Question   Experiment   Hypothesis 1 Hypothesis 2 Hypothesis 3 Hypothesis 4 Hypothesis 5 Potential hypotheses  Remaining possible hypotheses Last remaining possible hypothesis  Reject hypotheses 1 and 4  Reject hypotheses 2 and 3   Experiment Experiment 1   Hypothesis 2 Hypothesis 3 Hypothesis 5   Hypothesis 5 Predictions Predictions confirmed   Experiment 1 Experiment 2 Experiment 3 Experiment 4     Establishing Controls   Often we are interested in learning about processes that are influenced by many factors, or variables. To evaluate alter- native hypotheses about one variable, all other variables must be kept constant. This is done by carrying out two ex- periments in parallel: in the first experiment, one variable is altered in a specific way to test a particular hypothesis; in the second experiment, called the  control experiment, that variable is left unaltered. In all other respects the two exper- iments are identical, so any difference in the outcomes of the two experiments must result from the influence of the variable that was changed. Much of the challenge of experi- mental science lies in designing control experiments that isolate a particular variable from other factors that might in- fluence a process.    Using Predictions   A successful scientific hypothesis needs to be not only valid but useful—it needs to tell you something you want to know. A hypothesis is most useful when it makes predic- tions, because those predictions provide a way to test the va- lidity of the hypothesis. If an experiment produces results inconsistent with the predictions, the hypothesis must be re- jected. On the other hand, if the predictions are supported by experimental testing, the hypothesis is supported. The more experimentally supported predictions a hypothesis makes, the more valid the hypothesis is. For example, Ein- stein’s hypothesis of relativity was at first provisionally ac- cepted because no one could devise an experiment that in- validated it. The hypothesis made a clear prediction: that the sun would bend the path of light passing by it. When this prediction was tested in a total eclipse, the light from background stars was indeed bent. Because this result was unknown when the hypothesis was being formulated, it pro- vided strong support for the hypothesis, which was then ac- cepted with more confidence.   Developing Theories   Scientists use the word theory in two main ways. A “theo- ry” is a proposed explanation for some natural phenome- non, often based on some general principle. Thus one speaks of the principle first proposed by Newton as the “theory of gravity.” Such theories often bring together concepts that were previously thought to be unrelated, and offer unified explanations of different phenomena. Newton’s theory of gravity provided a single explanation for objects falling to the ground and the orbits of planets around the sun. “Theory” is also used to mean the body of interconnected concepts, supported by scientific rea- soning and experimental evidence, that explains the facts in some area of study. Such a theory provides an indis- pensable framework for organizing a body of knowledge. For example, quantum theory in physics brings together a   set of ideas about the nature of the universe, explains ex- perimental facts, and serves as a guide to further questions and experiments. To a scientist, such theories are the solid ground of sci- ence, that of which we are most certain. In contrast, to the general public, theory implies just the opposite—a  lack of knowledge, or a guess. Not surprisingly, this difference often results in confusion. In this text, theory will always be used in its scientific sense, in reference to an accepted gen- eral principle or body of knowledge. To suggest, as many critics outside of science do, that evolution is “just a theory” is misleading. The hypothesis that evolution has occurred is an accepted scientific fact; it is supported by overwhelming evidence. Modern evolutionary theory is a complex body of ideas whose importance spreads far beyond explaining evolution; its ramifications permeate all areas of biology, and it provides the conceptual frame- work that unifies biology as a science.   Research and the Scientific Method   It used to be fashionable to speak of the “scientific meth- od” as consisting of an orderly sequence of logical “ei- ther/or” steps. Each step would reject one of two mutually incompatible alternatives, as if trial-and-error testing would inevitably lead one through the maze of uncertain- ty that always impedes scientific progress. If this were in- deed so, a computer would make a good scientist. But sci- ence is not done this way. As British philosopher Karl Popper has pointed out, successful scientists without ex- ception design their experiments with a pretty fair idea of how the results are going to come out. They have what Popper calls an “imaginative preconception” of what the truth might be. A hypothesis that a successful scientist tests is not just any hypothesis; rather, it is an educated guess or a hunch, in which the scientist integrates all that he or she knows and allows his or her imagination full play, in an attempt to get a sense of what  might be true (see Box: How Biologists Do Their Work). It is because insight and imagination play such a large role in scientific progress that some scientists are so much better at science than others, just as Beethoven and Mozart stand out among most other composers. Some scientists perform what is called basic research, which is intended to extend the boundaries of what we know. These individuals typically work at universities, and their research is usually financially supported by their in- stitutions and by external sources, such as the government, industry, and private foundations. Basic research is as di- verse as its name implies. Some basic scientists attempt to find out how certain cells take up specific chemicals, while others count the number of dents in tiger teeth. The infor- mation generated by basic research contributes to the growing body of scientific knowledge, and it provides the scientific foundation utilized by applied research. Scien- tists who conduct applied research are often employed in 8 Part I The Origin of Living Things     some kind of industry. Their work may involve the manu- facturing of food additives, creating of new drugs, or test- ing the quality of the environment. After developing a hypothesis and performing a series of experiments, a scientist writes a paper carefully describing the experiment and its results. He or she then submits the paper for publication in a scientific journal, but before it is published, it must be reviewed and accepted by other scien- tists who are familiar with that particular field of research. This process of careful evaluation, called peer review, lies at the heart of modern science, fostering careful work, precise description, and thoughtful analysis. When an important discovery is announced in a paper, other scientists attempt to reproduce the result, providing a check on accuracy and honesty. Nonreproducible results are not taken seriously for long.   The explosive growth in scientific research during the second half of the twentieth century is reflected in the enormous number of scientific journals now in existence. Although some, such as Science and Nature, are devoted to a wide range of scientific disciplines, most are extremely specialized:  Cell Motility and the Cytoskeleton, Glycoconju- gate Journal, Mutation Research, and Synapse are just a few examples.   The scientific process involves the rejection of  hypotheses that are inconsistent with experimental  results or observations. Hypotheses that are consistent with available data are conditionally accepted. The  formulation of the hypothesis often involves creative  insight.   Chapter 1 The Science of Biology 9   How Biologists Do Their Work   learn why the ginkgo trees drop all their leaves simultaneously, a scientist would first formulate several possible answers, called hypotheses: Hypothesis 1: Ginkgo trees possess an inter- nal clock that times the release of leaves to match the season. On the day Nemerov de- scribes, this clock sends a “drop” signal (perhaps a chemical) to all the leaves at the same time. Hypothesis 2: The individual leaves of ginkgo trees are each able to sense day length, and   when the days get short enough in the fall, each leaf responds independently by falling. Hypothesis 3: A strong wind arose the night before Nemerov made his observation, blowing all the leaves off the ginkgo trees. Next, the scientist attempts to eliminate one or more of the hypotheses by conduct- ing an experiment. In this case, one might cover some of the leaves so that they can- not use light to sense day length. If hypoth- esis 2 is true, then the covered leaves should not fall when the others do, because they are not receiving the same informa- tion. Suppose, however, that despite the covering of some of the leaves, all the leaves still fall together. This result would eliminate hypothesis 2 as a possibility. Ei- ther of the other hypotheses, and many others, remain possibilities. This simple experiment with ginkgoes points  out  the  essence  of  scientific progress: science does not prove that cer- tain explanations are true; rather, it proves that others are not. Hypotheses that are inconsistent with experimental results are rejected, while hypotheses that are not proven false by an experiment are provi- sionally accepted. However, hypotheses may be rejected in the future when more information becomes available, if they are inconsistent with the new information. Just as finding the correct path through a maze by trying and eliminating false paths, sci- entists work to find the correct explana- tions of natural phenomena by eliminating false possibilities.  The Consent Late in November, on a single night Not even near to freezing, the ginkgo trees That stand along the walk drop all their leaves In one consent, and neither to rain nor to wind But as though to time alone: the golden and green Leaves litter the lawn today, that yesterday Had spread aloft their fluttering fans of light. What signal from the stars? What senses took it in? What in those wooden motives so decided To strike their leaves, to down their leaves, Rebellion or surrender? And if this Can happen thus, what race shall be exempt? What use to learn the lessons taught by time, If a star at any time may tell us: Now.  Howard Nemerov   What is bothering the poet Howard Nem- erov is that life is influenced by forces he cannot control or even identify. It is the job of biologists to solve puzzles such as the one he poses, to identify and try to understand those things that influence life. Nemerov asks why ginkgo trees (figure 1.A) drop all their leaves at once. To find an answer to questions such as this, biolo- gists and other scientists pose  possible an- swers and then try to determine which an- swers  are  false.  Tests  of  alternative possibilities are called experiments. To   FIGURE 1.A A ginkgo tree.     10 Part I The Origin of Living Things   Darwin’s Theory of  Evolution   Darwin’s theory of evolution explains and describes how organisms on earth have changed over time and acquired a diversity of new forms. This famous theory provides a good example of how a scientist develops a hypothesis and how a scientific theory grows and wins acceptance. Charles Robert Darwin (1809–1882; figure 1.5) was an English naturalist who, after 30 years of study and obser- vation, wrote one of the most famous and influential books of all time. This book, On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or The Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life, created a sensation when it was pub- lished, and the ideas Darwin expressed in it have played a central role in the development of human thought ever since. In Darwin’s time, most people be- lieved that the various kinds of organ- isms and their individual structures re- sulted from direct actions of the Creator (and to this day many people still believe this to be true). Species were thought to be specially created and unchangeable, or immutable, over the course of time. In contrast to these views, a number of earlier philosophers had presented the view  that  living  things  must  have changed during the history of life on earth. Darwin proposed a concept he called natural selection as a coherent, logical explanation for this process, and he brought his ideas to wide public at- tention. His book, as its title indicates, presented a conclusion that differed sharply from conventional wisdom. Al- though his theory did not challenge the existence of a Divine Creator, Darwin argued that this Creator did not simply create things and then leave them forev- er unchanged. Instead, Darwin’s God expressed Himself through the operation of natural laws that produced change over time, or  evolution. These views put Darwin at odds with most people of his time, who believed in a literal interpretation of the Bible and ac- cepted the idea of a fixed and constant world. His revolu-   tionary theory deeply troubled not only many of his con- temporaries but Darwin himself. The story of Darwin and his theory begins in 1831, when he was 22 years old. On the recommendation of one of his professors at Cambridge University, he was selected to serve   1.3 Darwin’s theory of evolution illustrates how science works.   FIGURE 1.5 Charles Darwin. This newly rediscovered photograph taken in 1881, the year before Darwin died, appears to be the last ever taken of the great biologist.     as naturalist on a five-year navigational mapping expedition around the coasts of South America (figure 1.6), aboard H.M.S. Beagle (figure 1.7). During this long voyage, Darwin had the chance to study a wide variety of plants and animals on continents and islands and in distant seas. He was able to explore the biological richness of the tropical forests, exam- ine the extraordinary fossils of huge extinct mammals in Patagonia at the southern tip of South America, and observe the remarkable series of related but distinct forms of life on the Galápagos Islands, off the west coast of South America. Such an opportunity clearly played an important role in the development of his thoughts about the nature of life on earth. When Darwin returned from the voyage at the age of 27, he began a long period of study and contemplation. During the next 10 years, he published important books on several   different subjects, including the formation of oceanic islands from coral reefs and the geology of South America. He also devoted eight years of study to barnacles, a group of small marine animals with shells that inhabit rocks and pilings, eventually writing a four-volume work on their classification and natural history. In 1842, Darwin and his family moved out of London to a country home at Down, in the county of Kent. In these pleasant surroundings, Darwin lived, studied, and wrote for the next 40 years.   Darwin was the first to propose natural selection as an explanation for the mechanism of evolution that  produced the diversity of life on earth. His hypothesis grew from his observations on a five-year voyage around  the world.  Chapter 1 The Science of Biology 11   British Isles Western Isles   Europe Africa  Indian Ocean Madagascar Mauritius Bourbon Island Cape of Good Hope  King George’s Sound  Hobart  Sydney Australia  New Zealand  Friendly Islands  Phillippine Islands  Equator  North Pacific Ocean  Asia North Atlantic Ocean Cape Verde Marquesas Galápagos Islands Valparaiso Society Islands Straits of Magellan  Tierra del FuegoCape Horn   Falkland Islands  Port Desire  South Atlantic Ocean  Montevideo Buenos Aires  Rio de Janeiro St. Helena  Ascension   North America   Canary Islands  Keeling Islands South America Bahia   FIGURE 1.6 The five-year voyage of H.M.S. Beagle.Most of the time was spent exploring the coasts and coastal islands of South America, such as the Galápagos Islands. Darwin’s studies of the animals of the Galápagos Islands played a key role in his eventual development of the theory of evolution by means of natural selection. FIGURE 1.7 Cross section of the Beagle.A 10-gun brig of 242 tons, only 90 feet in length, the Beagle had a crew of 74 people! After he first saw the ship, Darwin wrote to his college professor Henslow: “The absolute want of room is an evil that nothing can surmount.”     12 Part I The Origin of Living Things   Darwin’s Evidence   One of the obstacles that had blocked the acceptance of any theory of evolution in Darwin’s day was the incorrect notion, widely believed at that time, that the earth was only a few thousand years old. Evidence discovered during Darwin’s time made this assertion seem less and less likely. The great geologist Charles Lyell (1797–1875), whose Principles of Geology (1830) Darwin read eagerly as he sailed on the Beagle, outlined for the first time the story of an ancient world of plants and animals in flux. In this world, species were constantly becoming extinct while oth- ers were emerging. It was this world that Darwin sought to explain.   What Darwin Saw   When the Beagle set sail, Darwin was fully convinced that species were immutable. Indeed, it was not until two or three years after his return that he began to consider seri- ously the possibility that they could change. Nevertheless, during his five years on the ship, Darwin observed a number of phenomena that were of central importance to him in reaching his ultimate conclusion (table 1.1). For example, in the rich fossil beds of southern South America, he observed fossils of extinct armadillos similar to the armadillos that still lived in the same area (figure 1.8). Why would similar living and fossil organisms be in the same area unless the earlier form had given rise to the other? Repeatedly, Darwin saw that the characteristics of simi- lar species varied somewhat from place to place. These geographical patterns suggested to him that organismal lin- eages change gradually as species migrate from one area to another. On the Galápagos Islands, off the coast of Ecua- dor, Darwin encountered giant land tortoises. Surprisingly, these tortoises were not all identical. In fact, local residents and the sailors who captured the tortoises for food could tell which island a particular tortoise had come from just by looking at its shell. This distribution of physical variation suggested that all of the tortoises were related, but that they had changed slightly in appearance after becoming isolated on different islands. In a more general sense, Darwin was struck by the fact that the plants and animals on these relatively young vol- canic islands resembled those on the nearby coast of South America. If each one of these plants and animals had been created independently and simply placed on the Galápagos Islands, why didn’t they resemble the plants and animals of islands with similar climates, such as those off the coast of Africa, for example? Why did they resem- ble those of the adjacent South American coast instead?   The fossils and patterns of life that Darwin observed on the voyage of the Beagleeventually convinced him that  evolution had taken place.   Table 1.1 Darwin’s Evidence   that Evolution Occurs   FOSSILS  1. Extinct species, such as the fossil armadillo in figure 1.8, most closely resemble living ones in the same area, suggesting that one had given rise to the other. 2. In rock strata (layers), progressive changes in characteristics can be seen in fossils from earlier and earlier layers.   GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION  3. Lands with similar climates, such as Australia, South Africa, California, and Chile, have unrelated plants and animals, indicating that diversity is not entirely influenced by climate and environment. 4. The plants and animals of each continent are distinctive;  all South American rodents belong to a single group, structurally similar to the guinea pigs, for example, while most of the rodents found elsewhere belong to other  groups.   OCEANIC ISLANDS  5. Although oceanic islands have few species, those they do have are often unique (endemic) and show relatedness to one another, such as the Galápagos tortoises. This suggests that the tortoises and other groups of endemic species developed after their mainland ancestors reached the islands and are, therefore, more closely related to one another. 6. Species on oceanic islands show strong affinities to those on the nearest mainland. Thus, the finches of the Galápagos Islands closely resemble a finch seen on the western coast of South America. The Galápagos finches do notresemble the birds on the Cape Verde Islands, islands in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa that are similar to the Galápagos. Darwin visited the Cape Verde Islands and many other island groups personally and was able to make such comparisons on the basis of his own observations. FIGURE 1.8 Fossil evidence of evolution.The now-extinct glyptodont (a) was a 2000-kilogram South American armadillo, much larger than the modern armadillo (b), which weighs an average of about 4.5 kilograms. (Drawings are not to scale.)    (a) Glyptodont (b) Armadillo     Inventing the Theory  of Natural Selection   It is one thing to observe the results of evolution, but quite another to understand how it happens. Darwin’s great achievement lies in his formulation of the hypothe- sis that evolution occurs because of natural selection.   Darwin and Malthus   Of key importance to the development of Darwin’s in- sight was his study of Thomas Malthus’s  Essay on the Principle of Population (1798). In his book, Malthus pointed out that populations of plants and animals (in- cluding human beings) tend to increase geometrically, while the ability of humans to increase their food supply increases only arithmetically. A  geometric progression is one in which the elements increase by a constant  factor; for example, in the progression 2, 6, 18, 54, . . . ,  each number is three times the preceding one. An  arithmetic progression, in contrast, is one in which the elements in- crease by a constant  difference; in the progression 2, 6, 10, 14,. . . ,  each number is four greater than the preced- ing one (figure 1.9). Because populations increase geometrically, virtually any kind of animal or plant, if it could reproduce un- checked, would cover the entire surface of the world within a surprisingly short time. Instead, populations of species remain fairly constant year after year, because death limits population numbers. Malthus’s conclusion provided the key ingredient that was necessary for Dar- win to develop the hypothesis that evolution occurs by natural selection. Sparked by Malthus’s ideas, Darwin saw that although every organism has the potential to produce more off- spring than can survive, only a limited number actually do survive and produce further offspring. Combining this observation with what he had seen on the voyage of the Beagle, as well as with his own experiences in breed- ing domestic animals, Darwin made an important associ- ation (figure 1.10): Those individuals that possess supe- rior physical, behavioral, or other attributes are more likely to survive than those that are not so well endowed. By surviving, they gain the opportunity to pass on their favorable characteristics to their offspring. As the fre- quency of these characteristics increases in the popula- tion, the nature of the population as a whole will gradu- ally change. Darwin called this process selection. The driving force he identified has often been referred to as survival of the fittest.   Chapter 1 The Science of Biology 13   Geometric  progression   Arithmetic  progression  2   6   18   54 4 6 8   FIGURE 1.9 Geometric and arithmetic progressions. A geometric progression increases by a constant factor (e.g., 2 or 3 or 4), while an arithmetic progression increases by a constant difference (e.g., units of 1 or 2 or 3) . Malthus contended that the human growth curve was geometric, but the human food production curve was only arithmetic. Can you see the problems this difference would cause? FIGURE 1.10 An excerpt from Charles Darwin’s On the Origin of Species.   
